Time series data is everywhere
and can be found across a
multitude of industries.
These include smart
manufacturing, transport,
logistics and the energy sector.
The use of time series data for
real time monitoring and
forecasting is crucial to
obtaining meaningful insights
and to make data-driven
decisions from huge and never
ending data sets.
In this video, you'll see why
CrateDB is an ideal time series
database.
Widely recognised as one of the
leading time series databases,
CrateDB offers unparalleled
capabilities to process very
large data workloads.
Its Postgres compatibility and
SQL native interface make CrateDB
easy to integrate without
having to learn new query
languages or adopt new database
driver libraries.
Thanks to it's shared nothing
distributed architecture and
horizontal scalability, CrateDB
can handle large volumes of data
from sensors, IoT gateways, ERP
systems and so forth, ingesting
and indexing data quickly.
Columnar storage helps to enable
fast aggregations, ensuring that
data is available to query in
near real time.
CrateDB has built in functions to
support time series use cases
such as downsampling and
interpolation.
Thanks to its flexible data
model, CrateDB can store other
types of data such as relational,
document, geospatial, BLOBs or
vectors in the same database as
your time series data, all of
which can be combined in the
same SQL query.
Let's briefly explore these
concepts using our City of
Chicago data set.
The Chicago Park District
maintains weather sensors at 3
weather stations along the Lake
Michigan Waterfront.
These sensors capture data about
the temperature, humidity, and
barometric pressure, as well as
wind speeds and direction.
Data is captured at one hour
intervals.
It's a SQL statement that
creates a table to store this
information.
The 'ts' field is our timestamp
for this time series data.
The sample data set contains
over 150,000 records taken from
three weather stations over a
number of years.
Unusually for the United States,
temperatures in this data set
are in degrees Celsius.
Let's perform some simple
aggregations with this data.
First, let's look at the average
temperature at each weather
station.
When I run this query, you'll
see that I get an average
temperature for each of the
three stations.
Now let's see what the highest
temperature recorded at each
weather station was and the time
at which that occurred.
This query uses CrateDB's MAX_BY
function which takes two
parameters.
The 1st is the field to return.
The 2nd is the field that we're
looking for the maximum value
of.
So here we're going to return
the timestamp at which the
maximum air temperature was
observed.
Let's run the query.
We see for each station the
maximum temperature observed and
the time at which that event
occurred.
Large data sets with many data
points can be challenging for
humans to visualise.
This graph shows all of the
hourly temperature readings from
the Foster weather station.
There are 64,266 observations.
Downsampling is a method of
decreasing the number of data
points in a data set.
Our weather data observations
are recorded at hourly intervals
over several years.
By downsampling this data, we
more easily understand trends
across time periods.
Here we've downsampled the data
into four week periods, showing
the minimum temperature recorded
in each.
With fewer data points, 105 in
this case, it's much easier to
get an idea of what's going on.
CrateDB's DATE_BIN function is
designed to help with this.
Let's see how it works.
This query makes use of CrateDB's
DATE_BIN function to bucket
or bin the weather data into
four week periods, effectively
downsampling it.
It returns the lowest
temperature from the foster
weather stations for each.
Let's go ahead and run it.
As we can see, Chicago winters
get pretty cold with a minimum
air temperature of -22.78
Celsius in December.
Consult the CrateDB
documentation to learn more
about downsampling with the
DATE_BIN function.
And see how CrateDB supports
data interpolation with LEAD and
LAG functions.
In this short video, we only
scratch the surface of CrateDB's
time series capabilities.
If you'd like to take a deep
dive into time series data with
CrateDB, I recommend taking our
course Advanced Time Series at
the CrateDB Academy.
Continue your time series
learning journey by signing up
today at learn.cratedb.com.
And don't forget to try some
queries of your own using your
CrateDB cluster and the Chicago
sample data set.